thanks so better connectivity yeah
better than a traversal in general we
are ipfs is a peer-to-peer network which
means that there are no client-server
models there is no possibility for a
server to like for an admin of a server
to configure itself
exposing ports and a knot in a router
and so on really everybody in the
network is providing services to each
other therefore we need to provide
seamless connectivity and there are
several ways to do this of course we
have kind of like taking the so far
we've taken kind of like the more
aggressive fallback route in libido B
which is setting up relay
infrastructures which means that
basically these are nodes in the network
that are piping traffic in a
collaborative fashion for other nodes in
the network sorry I just run all this
way
so another way to open up ports in a
knot is by using UPnP or not PMP which
means that you're interacting with the
router and telling it hey I need a port
mapping for this right but there is a
space in the middle which is you'll find
up here in the network you want to
interact with you establish an embryonic
connection to them via a relay node and
it's not a start
a procedure that's called hole punching
and this is basically a synchronization
between two nodes such that they are
initiating connections to one another
and in the in the attempt while that is
happening routers may be magically will
establish pin holes what we call pin
holes which are basically small openings
and that will allow a direct connection
to flow between those peers but once we
start doing that there are a number of
things that are challenging mmm
for example if you have already
established traffic's traffic streams
and so on with the relayed connection
you want to transplant all of that state
because you don't want to start from
scratch if you manage to upgrade during
the process and parallel to a direct
connection so that was one of the
challenges that we discussed
transplanting stream state another one
is how do you identify peers when within
shared LAN segments because in many
cases knots are multi-tiered
means there's a not behind it not behind
it not and yeah well some of the
solutions are some of those solutions
had to do with yeah protocols and things
so come fighters everyone a little more
sorry
[Applause]